src/content/articles/how-to-contribute-and-add-articles-to-daily-nest/index.mdx, before:

---
isDraft: false
isMainHeadline: false
isSubHeadline: true
description: Publishing articles to DailyNest is a straightforward process. Follow these steps to contribute your content.
title: How to Contribute and Add Articles to DailyNest
cover: '@assets/images/articles/how-to-contribute-and-add-articles-to-daily-nest/cover.png'
category: blog
publishedTime: 2025-08-30T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - muhammadfiaz
---

### **Steps to Push Your Own Articles to DailyNest**

---

### 1. **Fork and Clone the Repository**

First, you'll need to **fork** the DailyNest repository on GitHub. This creates your own copy of the project, where you can make changes.

1. Go to the [DailyNest GitHub repo](https://github.com/dailynest/dailynest.github.io) and click **Fork** (top-right).
2. Once forked, **clone** your repository to your local machine:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/dailynest.github.io.git
   cd dailynest.github.io

   ```

---

### 2. **Set Up the Development Environment**

Before you can start adding articles, you need to set up your local development environment:

1. **Create a `.env` file** in the root of your project and add:

   ```
   RUN_KEYSTATIC=true

   ```
2. **Install dependencies**:
   * If you’re using **npm**:

     ```
     npm install

     ```
   * Or if you prefer **bun**:

     ```
     bun install

     ```

---

### 3. **Run the Development Server**

To preview your articles locally, you’ll need to run the development server:

```
npm run dev

```

Or with **bun**:

```
bun dev

```

Visit [http://127.0.0.1:4321](http://127.0.0.1:4321/) to view your local instance.

---

### 4. **Add Yourself as an Author**

To add yourself as an author:

1. Go to [Keystatic](http://127.0.0.1:4321/keystatic/).
2. Log in using your GitHub account if prompted.
3. Click on **Authors** in the sidebar, then **Add New Author**.
4. Fill in the details with your name, avatar (you can use your GitHub avatar URL), and bio.

---

### 5. **Create Your Article**

1. In Keystatic, click on **Articles** in the sidebar.
2. Click **Create** and start writing your article in Markdown or MDX format.
3. Make sure to include important fields:
   * **Title**: Your article's title (e.g., "Getting Started with React").
   * **Slug**: URL-friendly version of the title (e.g., `getting-started-with-react`).
   * **Category**: Assign appropriate categories (e.g., `react`, `javascript`, `web development`).
   * **Published Time**: Date in ISO format (e.g., `2025-08-30T14:48:00.000Z`).
   * **Authors**: Set the author field to your slug (e.g., `muhammadfiaz`).
   * **Content**: Write your article or paste your tutorial.

---

### 6. **Commit and Push Changes**

After adding your article, you need to commit and push it to your forked repository.

1. **Stage and commit your changes**:

   ```
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add new article: Getting Started with React"

   ```
2. **Push your changes**:

   ```
   git push origin main

   ```

---

### 7. **Create a Pull Request**

1. Go to your forked repository on GitHub.
2. You should see an option to **Compare & Pull Request**. Click on it.
3. Add a description of your article and any relevant details.
4. Submit the **Pull Request** to the main DailyNest repository.

---

### 8. **Wait for Review and Approval**

Once your pull request is reviewed by the maintainers, it will be merged into the main repository and your article will be live on **DailyNest**!

---

### Summary:

* **Fork and Clone** the repo.
* **Set up** `.env` and install dependencies.
* **Run the development server** to preview changes locally.
* **Add yourself as an author** through Keystatic.
* **Create and add your article** in Keystatic CMS.
* **Commit and push** changes to your forked repository.
* **Create a Pull Request** to contribute.

Commit message:

Implement dynamic lastModified with Git integration
- Modified remark plugin to get per-file Git commit timestamps
- Made lastModified optional - only shows when Git history available
- Updated article header to conditionally display lastModified
- Fixed date utilities to handle null/undefined values
- Updated meta types and components for optional lastModified
- Added comprehensive error handling for missing Git data
- Enhanced ToC with scroll tracking and responsive design
- Added next article and recommendation sections
- Created comprehensive health and tutorial articles
- Improved overall site structure and content

src/content/articles/how-to-contribute-and-add-articles-to-daily-nest/index.mdx, after:

---
isDraft: false
isMainHeadline: false
isSubHeadline: true
description: Publishing articles to DailyNest is a straightforward process. Follow these steps to contribute your content.
title: How to Contribute and Add Articles to DailyNest
coverUrl: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1498050108023-c5249f4df085?q=80&w=1600&auto=format&fit=crop
covert_alt: Person contributing code on GitHub with laptop and coffee
category: blog
publishedTime: 2025-08-31T17:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - muhammadfiaz
---

### **Steps to Push Your Own Articles to DailyNest**

---

### 1. **Fork and Clone the Repository**

First, you'll need to **fork** the DailyNest repository on GitHub. This creates your own copy of the project, where you can make changes.

1. Go to the [DailyNest GitHub repo](https://github.com/dailynest/dailynest.github.io) and click **Fork** (top-right).
2. Once forked, **clone** your repository to your local machine:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/dailynest.github.io.git
   cd dailynest.github.io

   ```

---

### 2. **Set Up the Development Environment**

Before you can start adding articles, you need to set up your local development environment:

1. **Create a `.env` file** in the root of your project and add:

   ```
   RUN_KEYSTATIC=true

   ```
2. **Install dependencies**:
   * If you’re using **npm**:

     ```
     npm install

     ```
   * Or if you prefer **bun**:

     ```
     bun install

     ```

---

### 3. **Run the Development Server**

To preview your articles locally, you’ll need to run the development server:

```
npm run dev

```

Or with **bun**:

```
bun dev

```

Visit [http://127.0.0.1:4321](http://127.0.0.1:4321/) to view your local instance.

---

### 4. **Add Yourself as an Author**

To add yourself as an author:

1. Go to [Keystatic](http://127.0.0.1:4321/keystatic/).
2. Log in using your GitHub account if prompted.
3. Click on **Authors** in the sidebar, then **Add New Author**.
4. Fill in the details with your name, avatar (you can use your GitHub avatar URL), and bio.

---

### 5. **Create Your Article**

1. In Keystatic, click on **Articles** in the sidebar.
2. Click **Create** and start writing your article in Markdown or MDX format.
3. Make sure to include important fields:
   * **Title**: Your article's title (e.g., "Getting Started with React").
   * **Slug**: URL-friendly version of the title (e.g., `getting-started-with-react`).
   * **Category**: Assign appropriate categories (e.g., `react`, `javascript`, `web development`).
   * **Published Time**: Date in ISO format (e.g., `2025-08-30T14:48:00.000Z`).
   * **Authors**: Set the author field to your slug (e.g., `muhammadfiaz`).
   * **Content**: Write your article or paste your tutorial.

---

### 6. **Commit and Push Changes**

After adding your article, you need to commit and push it to your forked repository.

1. **Stage and commit your changes**:

   ```
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add new article: Getting Started with React"

   ```
2. **Push your changes**:

   ```
   git push origin main

   ```

---

### 7. **Create a Pull Request**

1. Go to your forked repository on GitHub.
2. You should see an option to **Compare & Pull Request**. Click on it.
3. Add a description of your article and any relevant details.
4. Submit the **Pull Request** to the main DailyNest repository.

---

### 8. **Wait for Review and Approval**

Once your pull request is reviewed by the maintainers, it will be merged into the main repository and your article will be live on **DailyNest**!

---

### Summary:

* **Fork and Clone** the repo.
* **Set up** `.env` and install dependencies.
* **Run the development server** to preview changes locally.
* **Add yourself as an author** through Keystatic.
* **Create and add your article** in Keystatic CMS.
* **Commit and push** changes to your forked repository.
* **Create a Pull Request** to contribute.

---

### Tips for great submissions

- Include a clear description and a strong cover image (upload via Keystatic or use a URL).
- Use descriptive alt text for accessibility and SEO.
- Add 3–6 keywords to improve discovery.
- Prefer original content and cite sources where relevant.
